Add Airbyte to Data Observability ELT section (#36735)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/data_observability/quality_monitoring/elt/airbyte.md

---
title: Airbyte
description: Connect Airbyte to Datadog Data Observability to view end-to-end lineage from source systems to your data warehouse.
further_reading:
  - link: '/data_observability/'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Learn about Data Observability'
---

## Overview

> Datadog's Airbyte integration helps data teams understand how data flows from external sources into their data warehouses and trace quality issues back to upstream sources. After Datadog connects, it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog's Airbyte integration helps data teams understand how data flows from external sources into their data warehouses and trace quality issues back to upstream sources. After you enable the integration, Datadog:
```

- Pulls metadata from your Airbyte workspace, including workspaces, connections, and streams
- Automatically generates column-level lineage between source system tables and destination warehouse tables across all active connections

Lineage is derived for all [supported data warehouse destinations][4].

> ## Connect Airbyte

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connect Airbyte and Datadog
```

### Airbyte Cloud: Generate credentials

Datadog uses Airbyte's API to pull connection metadata. To authenticate, generate a **Client ID** and **Client Secret** from your Airbyte Cloud account:

1. In your Airbyte workspace, navigate to **Settings** > **Applications**.
2. Click **+ New application** and provide a name.
3. Copy the generated **Client ID** and **Client Secret**.

For more information, see the [Airbyte API documentation][1].

### Self-hosted Airbyte

You need the **base API URL** for your Airbyte instance (for example, `http://localhost:8000/api/public/v1`).

> If your instance has Basic authentication enabled, you also need a **username** and **password**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your instance has Basic authentication enabled, you also need a username and password.
```
